hey
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you're coming from hope
you all are doing well
welcome back folks
another thursday let's go
let's get us some hey what's going on
everybody welcome in welcome in welcome
in
good night tonight
um
tonight's a good night we we got a lot
of some some spiciness with the rays a
little bit a little bit more of these
these fancy methods a little bit just a
little bit of review a little bit of the
fancy methods and then we're going
deeper with our objects we're going to
look at not only using literal notation
but also using constructors adding more
more spice to our objects getting us
ready
for next week when we start using apis
and using objects to build really cool
stuff
but tonight we're going to build some
really cool stuff too we're going to see
functions come together
we're gonna see how we can have
functions doing one task and then using
them in correct ways and fun ways so
lots of fun stuff some good review some
good practice with arrays some good
stuff with objects glad you all are here
you know what i like to do we like to
start off the beginning of course
with our questions
if you got some questions
maybe i got some answers let's gamble
we'll get some gambling in tonight don't
worry we got some we got some uh some
yolos to be had
got some yolos to be had for sure
uh
we're gonna be doing a
rock paper scissors game together and
then we're going to play some rock paper
scissors we're going to see
we're going to see if people really
really put up these channel points or
not
that's what's a yolo yolo is when you
put it all on the line you throw all the
channel points into the wind and you
hope for the dub either double or you
don't
we saw somebody win almost 40 or is it
50 000 channel points last
last stream
you only live once exactly
alrighty the question of the day however
question of the day
would you rather be rescued by batman
or spider-man but batman or spider-man
in chat for me batman or spider-man
please
well i said i think i lost 80k one time
oh no
oh batman coming in hot
actually it's pretty split
a lot of spider-man's now good a few
batman's
this one's hard
i feel like being rescued by spider-man
be way more fun like you're swinging
through the air like you're having a lot
of fun but i might be able to convince
batman and give me some of the cheddar
you know like i feel like batman being
your friend
could lead to more opportunity than
spider-man being your friend i don't
know what that makes me
if i'm already trying to gold dig all my
superhero rescues but i feel like i feel
like more fun with spider-man but
you know i might get a little something
extra with batman you never know
could you imagine you're like falling
through the air actually can can we wait
for batman to get here please
spiderman hold on hold on is batman is
batman coming let's look around real
quick all right all right you got me
all righty folks you know what we like
to do you always like to give folks an
extra second or two to get in here
if you're new welcome we're running a 30
week software engineering bootcamp where
we go from zero to employed
if you need the materials for tonight
we're going to have lots of practice
fingers on keyboard you can always do
exclamation point discord in chat
use our discord to get the materials you
have to agree to the rules and then
there is a follow-along materials
channel that you can use to get all the
materials for what we're doing tonight
alrighty folks you got some extra
questions i got some i got some answers
for you i let folks get in here
don't forget to get your hydrations in
today
what's your favorite x-men nightcrawler
easy
alrighty get in here
uh what's the purpose of notation that
uses the three dots that's a spread
operator it uh it enables you to kind of
have the full array explode in that
position so instead of having to like
put everything in there it can kind of
spread open and be in there we'll see
that later on so it's a good good
question though yeah spread operator if
you want to look up what that is
all right i got a question i archived
some projects on glitch to be neat are
they still available for you to see in
the homework submissions or i need to
re-upload submit you don't have to
re-upload or submit don't worry if you
submitted them with some other other
links we got them already you're
good that spread operator got me in code
wars yeah it comes up quite quite a bit
it comes up quite a bit in code wars
especially if you're looking at other
people's solutions you're going to see
that spread operator a lot in the code
wars so that's the beauty right when
you're when you're doing your code wars
either you solve it or you look at the
solution always look at how other people
did it and you're going to pick up so
many like tips and tricks and so for a
while when i whenever i'm learning a new
language and i'm doing code words for
the first time i uh
i stay googling stuff there's so many
little like quirks of each language that
you only get when you're doing
challenges every day and so that's why
code wars is also so important you just
pick up on all these little things that
we'll never have time to cover live
together but if you're doing your code
wars every day you're learning something
new about the language every day
leon one of my friends showed me his
technical interview and i understood
most of the words in the technical
interview he got the offer i thought it
was cool to understand when i knew
nothing three months ago hey matt that's
awesome good to hear that
alrighty folks let's get into it
let's see what we got to get into today
so we are
talking about functions and loops and
we're going to review some arrays we got
some fun stuff to do with arrays and i
think for the first time we're going to
really see functions that serve one
unique purpose being used to build a
larger app so we're gonna see some fun
stuff with functions we're gonna see
some good array methods just to get some
more practice with it i know a lot of
folks are doing the array methods in
their code wars so we're gonna see some
fun ones like reduce
some of them that were in the reading
that we hadn't a chance to get over yet
then we're going to go deeper into
objects and setting ourselves up really
well to move into apis
cool
leon it seems like i can't really get
the grasp on js i tried everything
you've told us repetition repetition i
always feel like i understand quite a
bit but every time i face the problem
either in code wars or the task for
homework my mind goes blank what else
should i do to help me understand more
well i mean when your mind goes blank
that's not necessarily a bad thing i
think that happens to most folks when
they start seeing these problems for the
first few times
that idea of like you're looking at a
problem can trigger a lot of stress it
can trigger a lot of emotions of like
fear and doubt and so that's why i say
when you're first approaching code wars
don't
beat yourself up
just look at the solution
right until until you start doing these
challenges more regularly
right your brain might just switch off
and so you got to get comfortable with
the problems first you gotta get
comfortable with like the way they
phrase stuff or how they um
or how they
how they like like the terminology
that's being used and so when you're
first doing these problems probably for
the first week or two you're probably
just like looking at it going i
understand some of these words and then
just looking at the solution it's not
worth it to like beat yourself up over
not understanding how these like very
weird questions are being framed
the thing that you have to do though
the thing that you can never ever do
is look at the question
look at the solution and not commit it
to memory it has to be in your brain you
have to be able to
look at that problem again and know
exactly how you're gonna solve it and so
when you see that problem you
immediately if you don't know how to
solve it look at the solution spend
spending spend that amount of time you
would have spent solving on analyzing
typing retyping until you don't have to
look at the solution anymore add that
question to your anki and then every day
be reviewing that question and the
solution because i guarantee you there
are going to be parts of that question
that show up in other questions later on
and if you're looking at a bunch of code
wars and it's still not it's still not
clicking right it's still not clicking
it just means that you haven't seen
enough of those patterns yet eventually
you build up this this this muscle this
repertoire of of problems that you've
seen and when you look at a coding
problem you'll go oh
that's the pattern from this thing and
so that takes a while some folks that'll
take a week that sometimes it'll take a
month if you're doing code wars every
single day though within two to three
weeks that starts to be like easy
especially if you stick to level eight
fundamentals you're only doing eight
cues and you're doing the same types of
problems in a row don't be the person
that does an array problem than a string
problem than an object problem jumping
around because you won't see the
patterns that way you have to do all the
array problems they have to do all the
object problems you have to do all the
string problems don't jump around
because then you won't notice the
patterns so almost always when my
students are saying like leon i've done
code wars for a week i'm still having
trouble it's they haven't committed the
past solutions to memory and they're
probably still jumping if you're doing
all that just give yourself a little bit
more time it takes a little while
yeah
yeah you can actually search for the
specific problems and then that way
you're doing only arrays for a while or
only strings for a while yeah
cool
alrighty
let's get into it folks we're going to
do some quick review we're going to have
a a good kind of practice problems to
get our fingers on the keyboard and
we're gonna keep going so if you haven't
checked in yet please go ahead and check
in exclamation point check in uh if you
uh haven't followed along in the
following materials or followed along on
twitter go ahead and
check in for me give that a like a
retweet so more folks can find us
alrighty
submitting work i want to see your tasks
work so at the end of the reading that
i've asked you to do there were some
tasks i want to see how far you got in
this task what you're able to do so
please go ahead and make sure you submit
it your work for the tasks that you've
done
thank you
and
it pays to open the newsletter folks so
if you open the newsletter and you
filled out the secret form uh we gotta
we got a raffle that we have to do right
now so i ain't getting got no more
what i do
is write a stream starts i i grabbed
everybody's twitch names from the
newsletter from from that form and i put
it in a random name picker i ain't
getting got no more no more free raffles
here you know what i'm saying so
if you open the newsletter
and you click the secret raffle and you
filled in your info we're about to do
that raffle now
it pays to open the newsletter folks it
really pays next week
next thursday
and newsletters will be popping that's
all i got to say
how do you sign up for the newsletter
you can do exclamation point newsletter
exclamation point newsletter and that'll
get you signed up
cool
so the newsletter goes up before class
30 minutes before every single class
kind of just talks about what the class
is going to be and i always put little
secrets in there i always put like
it's a little bit of extra tidbit
sometimes i do raffles sometimes i just
do words of encouragement so
newsletter don't miss it all right for
the folks that threw in their
names we had about over 500 people that
clicked the link before class started
and so i'm going to randomly pick your
name now
ready here we go
all right
toto by africa 1313 uh go ahead and send
me a whisper and we're going to get some
merch coming your way next week so next
week we we we launched the merch and
toto you are getting uh a t-shirt coming
your way so congratulations folks it
pays to open
the newsletter
alrighty
health first we talked about this last
class uh make sure you're doing the
things that you need to do we're hitting
our stride now right we're hitting our
stride now
meaning that we're doing a lot more
where fingers are gonna be on the
keyboard a lot more gonna be building a
lot more you're doing code wars every
day like your fingers are going to start
to hurt please make sure you're taking
care of yourself
make sure you're getting your stretchers
in when we take our breaks make sure
you're actually taking your breaks make
sure you're hydrating good sleep right
if you need to take a day take a day if
you need to miss the class mr class it's
okay we'll be here we got the catch-up
crew your health comes first
and i feel like i always have to say
this i have to say this to every cohort
i teach because
every single culture i teach i have
folks that go to the emergency room
because they don't take this serious
right we don't they don't take this part
serious your body is going through a lot
of physical challenges as much as the
mental challenges of learning to code
right so make sure you're taking care of
yourself because here's where it starts
to
this is where the the the rubber starts
to hit the road folks it's where you're
starting to develop that wear and tear
and so please
before before the pain sets in take care
of yourself
coding challenges you should be doing a
code wars a day a code wars a day you
haven't been doing your code wars a day
it's okay now's the time to catch up
right now is the time to catch up make
sure you're doing one a day level eight
cues fundamentals
next week next thursday we learn about
git and github after next thursday
you're going to be pushing your code
every day to github every single day
you're going to do a coding challenge
and then you're going to push it to
github and the reason why we do and why
this is so important is one you get that
daily practice every single day you get
to do something practical every single
day you get to solve a challenge by the
time you're ready to interview you're a
lean mean interviewing machine
but
also once you start pushing every day
any recruiter hiring partner someone
that looks at your github they're going
to see oh this person's really about
this life they're pushing the github
every single day so please get your code
wars in level eights fundamentals only
stick with eights make sure you're doing
the same types of problems over and over
again
and
next week after we have our class on
thursday you're gonna start pushing your
challenges every day
when you're going up against another
person for a job and they're trying to
compare two candidates the thing they're
trying to figure out is do i want to
work with this person for the next two
years and can they really code and so
they're going to look at your github and
if they see all these commits all of
these things that you're putting on
there that you're doing every single day
that's going to help tip the odds in
your favor
we're gonna start turning things up
folks that's why the health comes first
we're gonna start seeing the the
intensity turn up just a little bit in
terms of us getting our fingers on the
keyboard more doing more practice
problems going deeper with our lecture
we're going to slow down a lot of the
repetition at the beginning do a little
bit more uh meet at the end of each each
class
and uh
there are some folks that want to push
right so when you're doing a boot camp
of this size there are some folks that
are going to be a little behind they're
going to be some folks that are right
there with you and there'll be some
folks that want to push
uh so for the folks that want to push
you're going to start to see me
recommend some extra stuff to do
not every class but maybe every other
class right so if you're in the position
where you're feeling you know what i
want to push a little bit faster i want
to do a little bit more i'm going to
start giving you that work in case you
want it
cool now when you see that push work
it's not something you have to do it's
for folks that have the privilege of
time right and they have the the the the
means to do it right so don't worry that
if you're not doing the push work it's
just for folks that really do
want to push so we're going to have a
stratification of folks across the
across the pond here and we want to make
sure that folks want to push they can
push it so you'll notice in the follow
along today there was a little section a
little bit extra work is something you
want to push yourself to do
i can hear this gif so could i
all right we mentioned it on tuesday but
next week is the best week
ever we got something every single day
of the week next week we we got we got
we have our our office hours on sunday
but then we're gonna have something
monday tuesday wednesday thursday and
friday so stay tuned we're gonna be
announcing some fun stuff that we're
going to be doing all throughout the
week it will be the best week ever and
uh culminating so part of our best week
ever is our sponsored stream on the 31st
so
next thursday we have our get and github
class a fundamental class we got to know
how to use git we got to know how to get
all of our our work up on github and so
microsoft is coming through to sponsor
that class we got tons of swag to give
out we got laptops to give out
make sure you're here on thursday it's
gonna be a lot of fun now
part of your homework was an
introduction to github by microsoft so
microsoft actually has a really cool
uh introduction to github that's part of
your homework when you go and click on
that link you're gonna see like an email
submit
uh if you fill out that email submission
you get entered into an extra raffle for
a laptop so if you want to get entered
into that raffle for an extra laptop
go ahead and give the email you don't
have to but if you want to be entered
into that raffle uh submit your email
and you'll be entered into that raffle
and then you're going to see two things
in that link the intro to github is your
homework i need you to go through that
class before next thursday if you don't
go through that class before next
thursday you're going to be behind and i
don't want that to happen so please
click that link
if you want to be entered in the extra
raffle fill in your email if you don't
just do the intro to github and that way
we're prepared for thursday it'll be a
really fun class but it's also a really
important class
all right
yeah you can just put 100 devs for the
company or whatever yeah
alrighty folks let's get into our
review and then we have a pretty cool
well i think it's a pretty cool coding
challenge uh to do together already
programming
program program is just a set of
instructions we write to tell a computer
what to do
and therefore the act of programming is
simply writing those instructions in a
language that the computer can
understand
the language that we use that helps the
computer understand what the heck we're
talking about is javascript
pdot hey thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
we learned about the big four one of
which was variables our bucket that we
can store data in we can set up the
space in memory with our declaration we
can assign that space of memory of value
and we can do both at the same time so
here you can see that let age equal 25
we're doing the declaration and the
assignment at the same
time beautiful
sorry my uh
my ipad wasn't connected one second
beautiful alrighty
we learned about our conditional syntax
where we can check to see if a condition
is true if it is true we do what's
inside the curly braces if not we can
move on to the else if to see if that's
true if that's not true we automatically
run the else the else does not need a
condition and get as many l-stiffs as
you want this is quick review for us if
you if you haven't been here before
we spent whole classes on this stuff so
we're gonna go a little bit fast as we
just kind of get in our space repetition
alright you can also have multiple
conditions where you're looking for both
things to be true where if your name
equals leon and your status equals
ballin
get a wink that's for you
we can also see if the day is saturday
or the day is sunday so we can do or
we're just checking to see if just one
of these conditions is true as long as
one is true then you can do what is
inside the curly braces
alrighty
functions we learned about functions
our functions are simple sets of
instructions and we're going to see
these in action today we're going to see
how these functions can be reusable and
how they can perform an action for us
that we can reuse over and over again
we know that our function comes down to
two pieces we have our function
declaration and our function call when
we call our function we pass in our
arguments we call mom to argue our
arguments fall into our parameters where
we see our parameters it's whatever we
passed into the function
so here is an actual function called
yell we passed in hello as an argument
it falls into our parameter word
wherever we see word it's actually going
to alert hello
we're going to see these functions in
actions in just a few seconds here folks
and we're going to see some interesting
things about the alert later on today
all right we talked about loops as part
of the big four our variables our
functions our conditionals and the loops
were the last of the big four then we
added on our arrays we added on our
objects but our loops are just a way of
doing something multiple times
we enable us to iterate through an
action over and over again we've seen
four we've seen wild we've seen four
each we're even seeing some other array
methods that still do looping like map
and
filter and some other ones that still
loop through all of our content
already the original for loop we saw we
set up our counter we say when the loop
ends and how much we go up by each
iteration and here we would just be
console logging that counter
each time the loop ran
we saw
some other loops like we said while and
for each and now let's get into some
review
so if you go ahead and open up the
materials from today
we're going to continue with our power
ranger themed review and we have a turbo
review
so there's a lot here folks in this
turbo review we got some variables
questions some function questions some
conditional questions some looping
questions and i want you to jump into
this i really want you to to to shift
into turbo exactly and uh see if you can
get through these and we're gonna go
over them together but i'm gonna i'm
gonna put a healthy
10 minutes on the board here
healthy 10 minutes on the board here
go ahead open up your
your code
and have at it
and play some music for you remember you
can always turn off the
sound while you're working if you need
some peace and quiet
otherwise i will see you in 10.
you got this dig deep
this is the turbo review turbo review
apple juice bang equals is just not
equal in value
bang equal equals is not value and and
value and type just like double versus
triple equals
uh seven minutes you can use that
whatever doesn't matter either one is
fine
yep
while if we get to react after we learn
full stack
can you talk about how variable can take
an argument if the variable is declared
to a function so variables in javascript
can hold anything including functions
can you put a 4-h inside of a map i
guess technically you could
you're going to run into some
efficiency issues
i'm on class 13 am i that far behind no
i mean we also have the ketchup crew so
feel free to kind of catch up at your
own pace and then join us live
is it bad practice to put loops inside
of other loops uh it depends on the
problem and what you're trying to do
eventually we'll we'll cover our data
structures and algorithms and we'll
we'll be able to figure out the
efficiency of the code that we're
writing it's not something you should
worry about right now
stinker you can
yep irony should
tech all the homework is in the
following materials channel
you can just search in that channel for
the class that you're trying to work on
and all the materials are there
hey turn up
fred yep you can also do exclamation
point semicolon if you want to learn
more about it
in chat
i'm behind for classes should i watch
this first or watch your live class
right now i would catch up with the
other classes and join us live
for office hours though
gar for github you're going to make also
be committing your homework we're also
doing lots of projects as we kind of
continue we wind up doing more projects
as time goes on
like even like less class more projects
1 pm eastern time on sunday or office
hours alright folks we're halfway
through
dig deep you got this
lozie it's in the follow along materials
channel
chara no join our discord exclamation
point discord and join the catch-up crew
george you can
sorry if it's hard we're going to go
over it together
oh dab that sounds fun
cold probably og green right
mine that's awesome hey well hopefully
hopefully folks were there and this is
review for them
you tell them that hey you're not you're
not currently looking for opportunities
but you will in a couple months and we
would love to reach back out then
gotta know because i don't know how to i
wouldn't i don't want to have to figure
out how to vent them
yeah i mean this this rock paper
scissors comes up in cold war wars quite
frequently or very similar
aspects of it across a lot of problems
this be doable there's pieces that you
should be able to get for this maybe not
everything but
it's involved maybe you have to do some
googling
it's all right though you feel behind
we're going to go over it together
please make them a shopify site then
ozzie on our discord you have to agree
to the rules and then once you do
there's a follow long materials channel
okay yeah we're gonna do a class on
online presence stuff like that later on
we gotta learn how to use github before
we can talk about optimizing our github
so
are we allowed to google help for this
assignment always you're always allowed
to google
even on the job you're supposed to
google so i wouldn't make you not google
if that's what you're supposed to do on
the job right
the code wars rps coming in clutch yeah
it shows up quite a few times
can i google an interview some
interviews yeah depends on the
interviewer
all right folks come on back let's look
at this together
if we can
get this one
underneath our belts here
come on in come on in
all right how far you got let's try and
do it together
all right let's chill the music
alrighty so close that's all right sorry
let's go over it together
declare a variable and assign it your
favorite drink as a string
make sure there's no white space on
either side of the string and print the
value to the console
what did you all come up with
to make sure there's no white space on
either side of the string
what'd you come up with ooh trim yes so
trim is a method that if you haven't
come across any of your code wars yet or
the reading yet you probably would have
googled it and came across a trim all
right so we'll use trims let's go and
declare a variable
um let fave drink equal
this one's always so hard
baja blast
right but um
can't leave it about i'm gonna have to
do uh diet
diet
let's do capitalize diet
vanilla
coke
from
friendlies
there you go if you know you know
but the like the like the legit syrup
you know like the legit
the legit
vanilla syrup they have it friendlies
you know you know it's all right
all right so i intentionally put some
space on the beginning
and the end of this string
and so
what i want to be able to do is i want
to be able to when i print it to the
console
not have those spaces so i'm going to
reassign favorite drink
i'm going to set it equal to favorite
drink
but i'm going to do trim
beautiful
and so just looking at trim what do we
know trim is
just by looking at trim what do we know
this is
what is it yeah it's a method all right
we're gonna keep that in our mind it's
gonna be it's gonna be a method later on
let's keep that in our brain for now and
then it says print it to the console so
let's go ahead and do our console.log
let's go and put in fave drink let's
save it up
let's make sure we open this one in the
in the browser
alrighty we got our power rangers turbo
there we go cool i gotta get you got to
get the hand exercises in there
all right let's look at our inspector
let's look at our console here
and we should see diet coke from
friendlies and we can see that there's
no space it starts right at the
beginning so the trim worked it got rid
of the space for straight
all right
look at this next one here
declare a variable assign it to a string
of multiple words
check to see if one of the words is
apple
all right there's lots of ways that we
can like check for words in a string
what are some what are some things that
you came up with to see if a word is in
a string
oh
i see some folks that did what i did
includes would definitely be one
uh search is one that i think is a
little less less known or i mean it's
definitely out there but i think that
people haven't seen it as much yeah
includes could work search could work
there's some ways you could split it
there's some other like fancier things
to do
i'm just going to use the search method
so let's go ahead and try that let's go
ahead and assign it a string
it has to be a string of multiples i'm
going to say an array of multiple words
it's a string of multiple words
so let's go ahead and say let stra equal
and we're gonna put in some words in
here
bob
duck
apple let's keep it lower case because
that's what it's looking for apple
and
dog
there we go
bob duck apple dog
beautiful
all right so it's a string of multiple
words all right so the string was the
key there
bob duck apple dog
and we want to see if apple's in there
so there's something we can do
i'm going to console log it just so we
can see it
we can console.log stra which is just
short for string
search
and we can look we can put the thing
that we're searching for
inside of that search so i'm just going
to put the word apple in here so let's
save this and let's see what we get
all right we got the number nine
we got the number nine so that means
that the search worked it found it did
find the word apple what do you think
the nine means
where did it where did they get the nine
from
yeah
let's count let's count it let's count
let's go back let's take a look
all right
0 1 2 3
4 5 6
seven
eight
nine
so a is in the ninth position in that
string so it's kind of like the index of
the string right start it counting with
zero with the b and so a was at the the
ninth
index in the string uh so that's cool so
if you do the search and it finds a
match it returns the
character and there you go like the
character index of where that word
started now the cool thing is if you
let's see if we put in let's let's let's
misspell let's let's put in something
that's not in there let's put um
uh let's put in
phone
right and let's go and save this let's
go ahead and refresh
all right we see what happens when it's
not in there we get a what we get a
negative one
right we get negative one so negative
one is like saying hey we looked in that
string and we didn't find it so now we
know if it's in there we're going to get
a number
if it's not in there we're going to get
negative
one
right
there are always different ways to solve
this my part of my job is to show you a
bunch of different stuff right so there
are other ways to do this absolutely but
if everyone knows the easy way and i'm
going to show you some other ways too
that's kind of the point right we got we
got to have some fun we got to see all
the different ways to do it you're going
to see other ways in your code words to
go about this stuff but i'm going to try
and show one that maybe you haven't seen
cool
all right so we got we got the search of
the string we were able to find that
there wasn't a phone we got negative one
so how could we check
to see if
if apple
was in the
string or not like how could how could
we how what could we do
what could we do to just to figure out
like to say like yes or no like what if
we wanted to like console.log yes or no
yeah we could just do a conditional
right we could just do a conditional so
let's go ahead and change this from a
console lock to like an if
and if it's if it's in there
let's say as long as it doesn't equal
what
as long as it doesn't equal what
yeah we can see as long as it doesn't
equal negative one
we can go ahead and console.log
yes
else
we could console.log
no
right
have it covered regex no
and i probably won't
when you're doing your code wars and
your code challenges really push
yourself not to use regex
regex is a quick way to solve a lot of
this stuff
don't use it when you're doing code wars
yeah
definitely something you can pick up
when you're going into interview season
but when you are like actually trying to
solve problems you're way better off
learning the different methods and the
other ways of solving stuff then you are
like really investing in learning regex
when it comes time for interview season
sure pick up the basics but when you're
going through code wars don't use it
cool all right so
we had
y'all can look it up everybody's like
what is regex it's regular expressions
it's ways of kind of like using some
shorthand notation to do stuff uh
specifically with strings and string
manipulation uh so it's really easy to
like check to see if stuff's in a string
add stuff remove stuff and so
when you do your code wars it comes up a
lot um and
a lot some of my students kind of over
invest in it and it never pays off
dividends
you'll be in an interview and you'll
solve a rejection you'll be like great
can you can you actually code it though
so
add it to your repertoire at the end not
something you should worry about though
all right
we're not searching for phone though
we're searching for apple
cool
so let's see if this works let's save
this
boom we got a yes
we know that we know that apple was in
this string
and this conditional works so
search for the string apple
as long as it doesn't equal negative 1.
why why do i say negative 1 as long as
it doesn't equal negative 1.
why am i saying not equal to negative
one
yeah if this
if this search did not find apple
it would return
negative one
so as long as it doesn't equal negative
i know
that it did indeed find apple
right i know that it did it did indeed
find apple so as long as it's not
negative 1 i know that if it returned
any other number that it did find apple
so i can go ahead and say yes if it was
negative one i can go ahead and
console.log no
beautiful
all right create a function that returns
rock
paper or scissors
randomly
what can we use here
what could we use here
to figure out if something is random
how well sorry how can we get a random
number
yeah math.random we've seen this before
so i'm going to use math.random
here to help me figure out how to return
rock paper or scissors randomly so let's
create a function
i'm going to call this rock
paper
scissors
beautiful
and
the very first thing i want this
function to do
is to give me that random number so i'm
going to say let random equal
i'm going to do math
dot random now
what math.random does
is it returns a number between zero and
one
so it's going to give me like a decimal
between zero and one for some folks that
kind of hurts our brains a little bit so
instead of saying is between zero and
one imagine it was going to return a
number between zero
and 100
right it's just going to randomly give
me a number between 0
and 100 right it's really between 0 and
1 but let's just use this as a better
example
so if it's going to return a number
between 0
and 100
and i want something to occur
a third of the time because i want it to
either be rock
paper
or scissors if i want something to occur
a third of the time i can check to see
if that number that was returned is less
than what
yeah make sure that it's less than 33 if
it was less than 33 i should go ahead
and return rock
if it was less than 66 i'll return paper
and if it wasn't less than 33
and it wasn't less than 66 then the only
thing it could have been is a number
between 67 and that 99 which means i
should return scissors
right so that's the only thing i'm doing
i'm just using this math.random to give
me a random
number
and once i have that random number i'm
going to have a conditional
right i'm going to have a conditional
that says all right was it less than
this do this was it less than this do
this and it was if it wasn't less than
those two things then the only other
possibility would be for it to be
the other one so let's go ahead and do
that i'm going to do a conditional
and i'm just going to say if
and we're going to say if
random is less than what we know that
math.random returns between zero and one
it really does do zero and one so uh
what do we what are we looking for here
yeah less than point three three
cool
if it's less than point three three
let's go ahead and return
rock elsif
what are we going to check for if random
is less than what
what are we going to check for this time
if it wasn't less than 0.33 what's the
next thing we check
0.66
nice
and if it's if it's less than 0.66 we'll
go ahead and return
paper
cool and we'll do an else
and so if it was
not less than rock a third of the time
and not less than paper the other third
of the time what's the only other thing
that it should be
scissors exactly
now remember it doesn't return one like
one's not a possibility it's between
zero and one yeah
cool
alrighty so now we should randomly
return
rock
paper or scissors so
let's go ahead and just uh call this one
so let's go ahead and save it
let's go to our console here
let's go ahead and do rock paper
scissors we'll run it we get rock let's
run it again paper let's learn it again
scissors that was perfect couldn't have
asked for a better one there
cool so you can see as we keep calling
this function
it keeps giving us a random value
between rock paper and scissors
nice
all right let's go ahead and look at the
next piece here
and what i like about this this is a
singular function that does one
job right it does just returning of rock
paper scissors so it's a function that
uses some stuff that we've seen before
to do one thing return rock paper
scissors let's look at this next thing
create a function
that takes in a choice so meaning like
we can play the game like we we will
give a choice of rock paper scissors
and determine
if you've won the game of rock paper
scissors against a bot
using the above function so what i'm
going to do is i'm going to be able to
create a function that takes in my
choice
and then see
how my choice
compares
to the botch choice and to see if i win
to see if i lose or see if i tie
cool
so let's go ahead and create a function
here and my function is just going to be
i'm just going to i'm just checking to
see
i guess i'm checking to see who won so
i'll i'll see i'll see um
i'll create a function here i'm gonna
call it check
check win i was gonna check to see who
wins
all right and i'm gonna take in a choice
i'm going to call my parameter choice
nice
and
let's go ahead and
what we're going to do is
we have our choice that's coming in
but we also need
the bot's choice so like what the bot
chose how can i get what the bot chose
what could i do to get what the bot
chose
yes i could simply just call the
function that we wrote above so let's do
that let's say
let bot choice
equal uh rock
paper scissors and i'm just going to
call it
right because what's going to happen is
when i run this when i when i make this
function call
this function call is going to run this
function
right and whatever comes out of it it's
either going to be returning rock to
this position
or it's going to be returning paper to
this position or it's going to be
returning scissors to this position and
so bot choice won't actually be this
function call be whatever gets returned
from the function call
so once bot choice runs it's as though i
had plopped in if i if it's what it came
out to be rock there and now wherever i
use bot choice
it's going to be rock
cool
so now that we have
the choice that i'm passing in as the
player i'm actually going to call this
player choice
just to make it a little bit clearer
cool player choice and bot choice
and now to see who win i got to do some
conditional logic
uh what i need to do now is just check
all the possible combinations
right all the possible combinations
of
how i could have won
so let's go ahead and say player choice
uh pl if player choice
equals
rock
and
bot choice
equals
what what what what how could i win if i
chose rock
what's the what was bot choice have to
be for me to have won
yeah it would have had to be had to be
scissors right
so let's go ahead and put in scissors
so if player choices rock and bot choice
is scissors
then
i know
that i
won and just to keep this kind of like
together
i'm going to wrap these in parentheses
here
cool so now i have like this one
this one condition for how i could have
won
if i want to do a if i want to check for
a different condition what bit of logic
do i need
so i have one condition where i would
have won
what type of logic do i need to check
for a different condition
yeah i need or
so i'm gonna say or so if it wasn't that
winning condition
check this winning condition so let's
say player
choice
was
paper
all right let's say player choice was
and
bot choice
was what what would bot choice have had
to have been for me to have
won if i chose paper
yeah would have would have to be rock
cool
let's do another or here
what if i chose
what if player choice
equals
scissors
right
and
bot choice
equals what what would a bot choice have
had to have been if i chose scissors for
me to have win
paper
beautiful
all right so are there any other
conditions for me to win
i have a rock condition
i have a paper condition i have a
scissors condition
no there's no other wind conditions
um
let's go ahead and do the tie condition
so what would constitute a tie
player choice
equals what
would have to be to be a tie
yeah it had to equal the bot choice
cool
so
if i win
i should do something in here so let's
just console.log
you win
uh if player choice equals bot choice i
should say
you tied
and if i didn't win
and if i didn't tie
what's the only other thing it could be
you lose exactly
cool
so
i now have the ability to
call my previous function
which will give me rock paper scissors
then i am able to compare
my choice
to the botch choice to see if i won
compare it to see if i tied and if i
didn't tie or win the only thing i could
do is
lose
so let's go ahead and
[Music]
let's go ahead and run this
i am going to go ahead and play player
choice
and i'm going to pass in rock
let's see if this works or not
uncaught reference error player choice
is not defined and look it says line 42
line 42 player choice is not defined
let's go take a look at it
player choice is not defined what did i
do
what's wrong with this
it's not the function name the function
name is check win
the function name is check win
i was too busy looking at the parameter
and i used a parameter
so it's the function name is checkpoints
let's call it check win
beautiful
let's save that let's go ahead and run
it
you lose
[Music]
let's go ahead and run it again i'm
going to refresh the page
you lose
you you tied
man i'm losing hard
you tied you lose you tied you lose you
lose you tied you tied you win
damn
[Music]
we can't win yo my code's hating
my code's a hater
[Laughter]
i mean i can't win it oh damn
that's hilarious
that's how
that's how that's how life goes some
days
that's how life just goes some days
all right let's take a look at our code
here
um
we got our rock paper scissors make sure
it actually is random less than 0.3 less
than 0.6 that looks good to me
our our win logic looks good all right
let's do a yolo let's do a yolo
uh i'm gonna go ahead and create a
prediction here
start prediction
win
or
lose
win
lose i'm gonna start a prediction here
go ahead
call win or lose if there's a tie we
just run it again
so there's a tie we win we run it again
so win or lose if there's a tie we run
it again
i think this one was just 30 seconds i
didn't click the minute
got like 10 seconds left to get in
all right let's see what we got
all right let's refresh the page
three two one
you tied all right
all right let's let's run it again
let's refresh the page
we tied the guy run it again
keep you in suspense
you lose
i feel like more people would lose just
because of the way that it was that it
was rigged up
now see this is the fun part was was it
rigged i don't know you got to check the
code it's you got to check the code if
you're better at code you win more
channel points
all right so let's go ahead and uh
do the prediction here prediction
outcome
choose outcome
it was lose
complete the prediction
complete prediction there you go hope
you enjoy your your channel points
who uh who yolowed the most
let's see just give me the see details
oh pasta i think put up put up put a big
chunk
i think 49k went one way
different hey thank you for the sub
that's wild
juggling send me a whisper for somebody
in science and um software sorry
software and game dev
uh who you want to do the raid for
you're the 17 most in different that's
wild
all right yeah juggling biohazards uh
did the guide the raids you get to pick
samia whisper
as we get closer to the end of stream
all right let's um let's finish this up
and then we can take our break uh
actually it's working so
we're we're working here let's take our
break and then we'll do the loop
let's take our break and then we'll do
the uh the loop
cool so five minutes in the clock if
you're new around here we like to be
healthy we like to take our breaks
and so we're gonna put five minutes on
the clock if you're able get up move
around hydrate and then we'll be back
we'll be back in in five
different hey thank you for the 10 gifts
itself that's wild thank you so much
thank you for being here hope you're
doing well
all right five minutes on the clock
different thank you
put some music on i'm gonna run some ads
see you all in five
good to hear and different
[Music]
you
yeah so it doesn't matter if you're in
germany send me uh samia whisper you're
good i'll ship it to you
ship anywhere in the world
all right folks come on back come on
back
what
different well i'm away too get out of
here
[Music]
a different a thank you for the
20 gift itself that is wild
um eternal make sure you send me a
whisper send me a mod mail about the
resume review
and mj builds a thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
and carsey sorry i saw i missed the two
minute timer carzie the next timer we do
we'll add two minutes to it all right i
missed that
all right folks come on back
different hey thank you for the gifts of
cells i appreciate that
yeah we got to do the the pokemon card
too we have time at the end of this
class we'll do it if not we'll do it
during the best week ever
oh
can we get another cheap hydrate day
yeah we can do one soon
all right folks let's go back and finish
this last bit
this last bit is the
kind of how can we
do this multiple times with the loop so
it's going to read the instructions here
create a function that takes an array of
choices
play that game x times where x is the
number of choices in the array
print the results of each game to the
console i think this is this is pretty
this is pretty easy uh for this one i
think we just have to
use the loops that we've seen so far
and just run the call that function
multiple times so let's go ahead and do
this let's create a function
and call this play
game
x
times
beautiful
and then we're going to pass in a number
or just we're going to say num just for
numbers so a number of times
and
let's go ahead and we can just do
or sorry no we need to pass in an array
an array of choices
pass in takes in an array of choices so
this is our parameter is going to be an
array so what i'm going to do here is
i'm going to go ahead and do array
then we can just do four each
i actually don't like how it set that
all up i'm gonna type it out
for each cool
and then in for each
i am just going to call
the
the check win so i know there's a choice
coming in
and i'm going to call
check
win
with that choice
i think that's all we have to do here
let me set it up let me try it out and
then i'll walk through how how i think
it's going to work
play games x times let me pass in an
array i'm going to pass in rock then i'm
going to pass in paper
and then i'm going to pass in scissors
cool
so let's go ahead and save this
i'm going to comment out this one so
it's really we should see three
we should see three win loss or ties
inside of the
inside of the console so let's go see if
this works
let's refresh
and we gotta lose tide lose
damn
[Laughter]
can't get no love from the code that i
wrote
yo
i'll code hating today damn
all right let's run it let's run it
let's run it one more time let's let's
see
come on you can't be that bad come on
all right you win you lose you win
that's what i'm talking about that's
what i'm talking about some wins some
losers some wins you know you got to get
the wins in there
all right let's take a look at what the
heck is going on in here
so
i am
calling my play games x time
function here is the function
the
function
takes in an array
and so this array
is being plopped into the parameter of r
it's being prepped it's being plopped
into the parameter of r
right
and so wherever i see r
it's our array that we just passed in
right so you can kind of think of it as
though
this right here
i can just yink it
is now sitting
right here right we passed it wherever
we see r it's the array that we just
passed in
right so the rock the paper and scissors
is sitting there now the cool thing is
the four each is going to run how many
times how many times is this for each
goblin going to run
yo funny what's up how you doing
yeah
that 4-h calm is going to run three
times because there's three elements in
the array
and each time it runs
choice
is going to be that element from the
array so the very first time this runs
choice
is what chat what is choice the very
first time this runs
yeah it's gonna be rock
rock is gonna be a choice the very first
time this runs so what we're gonna do is
we're gonna pass in
rock
into the check win function
and if we look where the check win
function is it's as though we passed in
rock here
and so wherever i see player choice it's
going to be rock
so here's player choice of rock and the
other cool thing is when we ran the
check win function we also asked this
rock paper scissors function to run so
that ran as well we got to come up here
we got it we got to come up here to see
see what won from the rock paper
scissors function so the really cool
thing about this is not only we're using
the rock paper scissors function we're
also using the player choice function
we're also
using our loop
spider lady thank you for the bits all
right so let's take let's let's run this
back again let's look at it all right so
we we we're running the for each once
for each item in our array the very
first time choice is going to be rock
we're going to pass rock
into the check win functions let's go up
and take a look at the check win
function
we know that player choice is going to
be
rock
and so anywhere i see player choice it's
now rock
rock
right
and so before this check win function
can see if i won or lost it also has to
figure out what the bot threw so we come
up here
to see what the bot through and it's
going to either return rock
paper or scissors so in the check win we
wind up comparing
rock
to whatever came from the rock paper
scissors function
and then we do our either you win you
lose sorry you win you tied or you lose
and that's it and then we run this three
times so we should see three results the
first time we pass in rock the second
time we passed in paper and the third
time we passed in scissors and so this
check when function's going to run three
times
which means how many times does this
rock paper scissors function run
three
someone said leon what's a real world
scenario where you use this many
functions
this is how a lot of your programs are
going to come together this this this is
this is programming folks this is it
right here
this this is this is this is the bread
and butter this is what we do all day
long because if we look at what's
happening here
it's the core of what we said functions
do functions are really good at doing
one thing
and then we can reuse them as many times
as we want so if we go back and look at
this code i think this code's really
important and i know
the first time you see this it can be
mind-blowing it just it just seems like
a lot especially if like the array
stuff's still not clicking you got to
come back to this you got to understand
all this code tonight if there's one
thing you come back and review please
make sure it's this turbo review
because it it just really is that
important because if we look
we have one function
that is determining
uh a a bot choice rock paper or scissors
right
then we have a whole other function
that's checking to see if we won
and then we have a whole other function
that's like running the game
this is how our programs are going to be
broken up into like individual reusable
pieces because let's say i wanted to
play
a different game
what if i wanted to play rock paper
scissors lizard spock
right i wanted to play a different game
i want to play rock paper lizard spock
do i have to change
the playing of the game function
no i don't have to change the playing of
the game function
i might have to change
check win a little bit and i might have
to change rock paper scissors a little
bit
right but i don't actually have to
change
the the the playing of the game and so
very quickly we can start to see how
this could be reusable
to even play other games
what if i wanted to play
um coin flip
what if i want to play a coin flip game
well instead of it being a best out of
three
it'd be a 50 50 a heads or a tails so i
could change this to 50 50 instead of 30
30 30 or 33 33 33 right and then my
check win could just be a slightly
different change and the playing of the
game could stay the same
so eventually we wind up breaking
a lot of these
larger projects
into smaller repeatable instructions
that are our functions and that's
programming folks the programming is
sitting down and thinking through all
right how can i break this really large
task into digestible steps and how can i
write these digestible steps in a way
where they can be reused and so that's
the beauty of
like programming and so this is i really
like this example because the first time
you see all these different functions
coming together
cool
all righty let's keep pushing let's keep
pushing
i hit the gotta hit the pose writing
this code 100 times tomorrow hell yeah
cyber hell yeah that's what i want to
see
rip my weekend
alrighty erase
chat what are arrays please what are
arrays
they're toasters nice
my biggest enemy
it feels like that sometimes sometimes
there's some code that i'm just like me
and you are not friends
there are just some concepts in
programming that just hurt my brain and
and me and me and them are just not
friends
so i feel it if if toasters are your
worst enemy it's okay it gets a little
bit easier with time
already toasters what the heck do i mean
by toasters right all i mean is a data
structure that can hold other stuff a
data structure that can hold other data
structures one thing that can hold
multiple elements and so that's why i
like a toaster because a toaster is one
thing but it can hold the bread the
toaster strudel the bagel the hot
pockets right
and we like to think of bill gates
toaster because as our slots fill up we
always get room for one more
there are two ways to create a raise
this constructor way we're going to
finally see constructors tonight and
then this will make a little bit more
sense but the way we've been creating
arrays is using literal notation meaning
that
we are using the actual square brackets
now when we declare arrays we can plot
values in and remember
an array can hold any other
value that we've seen before it can hold
strings booleans numbers other arrays
anything is fair game inside the arrays
and the tricky thing about arrays is we
start our indexing at zero meaning that
the elements
start their slots the toaster starts its
slot at the zero slot and moves forward
so the tricky part is if you're trying
to get new york city out of this array
you would have to use its index of zero
not one
and the cool thing is we can use these
indexes to get stuff out of an array we
can also use these indexes to put stuff
into
an array
and we saw something that could be
really tricky is that you can
have an array
that gets set to another array so you
can overwrite a whole array using
another array
and we also learned that arrays have
properties like length and length will
tell you how many elements are inside of
your array
and then we learned that we could
iterate through arrays meaning that we
can move through and pull the values out
of the array which makes them really
powerful not only can a race hold all
this data but we can pull data out and
loop through it
so we saw a traditional for loop that we
could move that used to move through our
content but we also saw a method that's
built in and works with arrays called
4-h we just saw it a few seconds ago for
each will run once for every single
element in the array and the goblin that
runs it grabs the element the index and
the array every single time it runs it's
up to you however to have the buckets to
throw that content into if you don't
have the buckets you can't use it inside
of your function
cool
we also saw some methods that we can use
with arrays and if you did the homework
you saw even more methods that you could
use right
even more methods that you could use
to
get the
to to do stuff to our array so we saw
the ability to
take something off the front of the
array using shift
we saw the ability to take something off
the end of the array with pop
and when you use shift and pop do you
actually mess with the original array
when you do shift and pop do you
yeah you do
when you use shift and pop you are
literally changing that array it's
literally pulling it off the array
either from the front or the back
beautiful
and then when we do unshift we can put
something on the front of the array
and when we do push we can put something
on the end of the array so we can shift
off the front pop off the back unshift
on the front and push on the back and so
um
when we looked at it we had
we had
unshifted dielon and we had pushed
dylon onto the end of this best wrappers
2020 but then we also had map
and map will run once for each element
in the array
but the beautiful thing
about map is that it gives us something
different in the end what does map give
us for something in the end what what
does what does map do for us in the end
it gives us a new what
it gives us a new array and so you can
see for this map it didn't really matter
what we were doing we were taking in
dailon we were taking in polo g we were
taking in dailon it just didn't matter
the only thing this map spits other than
the hot fire was dylon so it didn't
matter the this map was going to run
three times and it's going to return
dylon three times and so best wrappers
of all time which is the new array would
have had dylon dylon dylon and then to
finish it up we unshifted dylon onto the
front we pushed dylon onto the end and
if we were to console log the best
wrappers of all time we have dailon
dailon dylan dialing and of course
dailon beautiful
already let's look at this space
review
all right so we have space review i'm
gonna close these two
inside of space review
we have a js file an index file
and
this space review
uh i really want you to do the first one
let's let's just do the first one today
we're gonna do this the first one we're
going to save these other three
for
office hours so if you want to do more
array practice come to office hours you
want to do some object practice come to
office hours we're just going to do this
first one create an array of numbers sum
all the numbers and alert the sum so i
was gonna put three minutes on the clock
for this one um but we had
we had who did it we had
uh
carsies
uh that added two minutes to timer so
we're gonna do five minutes on this
timer uh to do the first problem
five minutes on the clock go as deep as
you can with this one
um
you can do it the old school way you can
create just a for loop
and loop through and add all the values
we've done that already together in
class
you could try using the reduce method so
this is uh space review
and we're just going to try and do the
first one if you finish the first one
and you like burn through it try the
other three we're gonna go over those
other three during office hours so go
ahead four minutes left on the clock you
got this dig deep you got this
so
got a lot of dunzos you do all the extra
ones get out of here
google is your friend google is all our
friends for sure
definitely what some of these challenges
we're doing space review just the first
one
what up dambo
arasi yeah you would have to code that
in the original
dark i was pulling up my i normally have
the activity feed like below
on my left hand monitor but i like to
have it on up top of my right hand
monitor and i didn't have it up so i
needed to pull it back up so that i
could see um
the like rewards and stuff that were
coming in
yeah so i was like trying to like get it
to work
i also keep my notes over here so often
i have to look at my notes to remember
what the heck i'm doing
no worries lerner
holy smokes i did it hey congrats
are you talking about client
alternatives today we're going to do
that on tuesday
and i'm going to push the deadline back
a little bit so the the deadline is
going to get pushed back a little bit
but that'll be part of best week ever
reduce has been the most difficult we
understand but i just did it hey let's
go turn up
he's gonna add two minutes to the
deadline
nice
there were a lot of array methods into
reading which do you think are the most
important ones to know i think all the
ones that are in the in the in the
reading are like some stuff you have to
know they come up in a lot of problems
never cheating to google it there's no
such thing as cheating and learning how
to code
all right folks come on back let's look
at this together
alrighty come on let's look at this
together
thank you to casey for the extra two
minutes on this one
alrighty create an array of numbers and
sum all the numbers alert the sum
uh we could do something like
like a for loop we actually did this
problem with a for loop before but i
want to use the reduce method because
you all had to do the reduce
because you all had to learn the reduced
method and i think it gets a lot of
focus in trouble when they first see it
so i was going to create a numbers track
can you give me some numbers please
all right 33 i'm gonna do one more let's
see
57 all right
beautiful so now we have an array of
numbers
i want to sum all the numbers
and so i'm going to go ahead and create
i'm going to go ahead and create a sum
and i'm going to set it equal to
uh
using a reduce method so i'm going to do
numbs
dot reduce
and the cool thing about reduce is it's
a method that's going to run once for
every single element in our array just
like map will do it or for each we'll do
it reduce is going to run
once for each element in our array and
we're going to pass in
this arrow function here and this arrow
function is going to run once for each
element in the array but reduce grabs a
few specific things kind of like how it
for each you have to grab the element
and the index well every single time
reduce runs you kind of get two values
that are important there's technically
more than two but there are two that are
important the first value is called an
accumulator and the second value is
whatever the current value is so i like
to say acc for accumulator and c for the
current value
and then what we're going to do is we're
going to simply
add our current value to the
accumulation so
accumulator plus current value
and so what i'm actually saying here is
every single time that this
runs
i want to
add something to an accumulation
and so the very first time this runs i
want the accumulator to start at a value
and so i want my i want to have control
over what my accumulator starts at so
you'll often see something like this
comma zero
and so with the comma zero
it's going to show
my accumulation is going to start at
zero
and this is going to be helpful
it's gonna be helpful for a lot of
different things like type
type
error like like like weird typing stuff
but for now let's just say oh we're
going to start our accumulator at zero
all right
so
the very first time that this runs
my accumulation i'm gonna give myself
some room here the very first time that
this runs my accumulation is at zero
and my current value would be what what
would the current value be
the very first time this runs
yeah the current value would be 42.
so
my accumulator is 0 and my current value
is 42. what i'm going to wind up doing
is 0 plus 42.
that means that my accumulation like we
could just keep track of it over here
is 42.
then this runs again
and my accumulator this time
is 42. and i'm going to add the current
value which is
19.
oh blind and sign up for this
didn't sign up for this
so that would be
19 plus 42
which is 61.
so our accumulator is now
61.
beautiful bust out the calculators for
me
all right we're at 61.
all right the next time that this runs
the accumulator is 61
and the current value is 77.
so if we add
to 61
the accumulator
is now
138.
it's 138.
all right
then we do this again
and now the accumulator is 138
plus 33
right so now the accumulator
is going to be at
beautiful
now the next time that this runs
the next time that this runs
we're at 171
and we're going to add the last current
value
which is 57
so that means that our accumulator ends
up being
228.
our accumulator winds up being 228 which
means that sum
winds up being
228. so it's as though we we cancel out
this line and we're at 220. you want to
know what's really freaking sad though
hold on i'll show you what's really sad
one second
is that i've been working through this
book
the secrets of mental math
like i've been going through this
hardcore like i've been doing it i've
been going through it
but
but there's there's something called
stream brain
and i've asked other folks about this
stream brain is really true like when
i'm streaming i am way less efficient i
promise you i i swear i am way less
efficient than i am like in real life
like sometimes my typing doesn't work
right like my fingers are hitting weird
keys like i can't do basic math like
so it's just like when you're on stream
it's like a different thing i don't know
it's not like and it's not like stage
for it like i'm over that by now right
i'm over that by now but it's just like
some like basic tasks like i wonder if i
could like juggle i'm really good at
juggling i wonder if i could juggle on
stream right it's because you're being
watched yeah i don't know there's
something weird about it
yeah
all right so that's how reduce works
reduce is going to run once for each
element in the brain
right
reduce is gonna run once
for each element in the array
and we can do whatever we want with that
current element to an accumulator so
let's say instead of um
instead of
adding to an accumulator
we could
subtract it from an accumulation
or we could divide it from an
accumulation or we could even multiply
it to an accumulator
and if we knew that we were going to be
multiplying to an accumulator what
should we change about this reduce
yeah
we should probably start the
accumulation at one just that we're not
doing like multiplying by zero each time
now
this idea of like starting at zero or
starting at one is is like not a full
truth
it's just helping us avoid some things
that are actually really problematic
when using reduce what if we had like 42
in here
and we tried to do the accumulation
let's uh let's let's save this real
quick
oh we didn't console.log the sum oh so
we have to alert the sum let's go ahead
and alert sum
and
let's save this
and i'm going to get rid of the zero for
right now so let's just go ahead and
save this and i'm going to run this in
my browser
and you can see we got all like this
concatenation that was happening right
and so we had all this concatenation
that was happening oh look at that
that's beautiful
oh that black range is lit ah hold up
you know i'm not gonna front pink ranger
always has the best poses every single
time pink ranger has the best poses
all right so we have like that weird
concatenation going on i'm gonna put it
back to zero i'm gonna show you
something
with the
zero refresh
it's still doing the concatenation right
so when i say like typing and stuff like
that it's it's not like changing types
for us
right that's something we have to
understand so it's not like changing
types for us
it's just helping us to say what we want
the first type to be like do i want it
to be like a number do i want it to be a
string and so in this case we're saying
hey start the accumulation off as a
number and not a string which is if
you're doing some some code wars this is
going to be something that's going to
pop up so just keep that in your brain
that sometimes you're going to want the
accumulator to start off as a number and
you're going to need this
comma 0. and if you don't you're gonna
run into some tricky issues
all right
how could we fix this so that this would
work
what can we do to make this work
oh
folk man's been doing some code wars
yeah i'm seeing some i'm seeing some
folks pulling out the
here we got so we got some code war
answers we got some cold war answers in
the chat hold on let's see this
what
[Laughter]
oh we got we got cold war's brain right
now i see y'all
so what we've seen in the past is that
we've seen this right
we've seen that we like hey give us the
number out of the current value so if
it's string 42 we would get number 42
and of course this this would this would
work right
but there's some there's some like uh
there's some code wars type answers that
you're gonna start seeing
where this does the same thing in
javascript
just the plus sign will do the same
thing
and then you can even like get rid of
the um
the zero by doing like that
which does the conversion on the
accumulator and the current value
so
it gets wild out here folks that's all
i'm going to say
so be careful on these cold war streets
i'm going to change this back for the
for the
poor souls that are running back this
code
all right
chris said hey
code words can get wild it could really
chem alright so reduce
i know reduce when you first see it is
really kind of confusing
but i hope after seeing me like step
through it uh it makes a little bit more
sense all reduce is doing
is setting up a bucket for accumulation
right it's just setting up a bucket
and then each time it runs the current
value grabs the value out of the array
and you can do whatever you want with
that current value
in relation to what you're storing in
the bucket
the very first time this would run
we have zero in the bucket and so we'd
grab the current value which is 42
and we throw it in the bucket now the
bucket is holding 42.
then we grab 19 and we throw it in the
bucket so now it's 42 plus 19 and so
that's all you're doing with reduce and
definitely eventually reduce gets
more you can do more complicated things
with it but it reduces down to a
singular in this instance reduce reduces
down into a singular what
what does reduce reduce down into
kind of like how you have like a
reduction that when you're cooking what
did i reduce reduce down into
yeah reduce down into a singular number
right and that number
was stored in sum so in our case this
reduced all the way down to what was it
and then we alerted that sum which was
228 so that that's all reduced is doing
it's just reducing it down into one
thing
right and then we're alerting that thing
cool
all right let's
leon with the cookie tears hey i'll tell
you what so uh i was an associate at
harvard for a while i used to teach a
lot at harvard i always taught like um
like front-end web development stuff
specifically at the business school
and
harvard has like some of these like
really cool classes
and one of the classes was a cooking
class but it wasn't like you like go and
learn how to cook they would just pull
in all these like really dope people
that are like in
the food world and so um there's this
really amazing
uh fermented foods guy
that works at noma that they brought in
i was so like they're so like i would
just go like to all these friday cooking
community things like these friday
cooking classes so i know all the terms
i got hella terms for cooking stuff that
like i didn't know was like a legit
thing to do yeah that's my flexosaurus
i'll throw it out there but yeah so i
got the cooking terms i got you
all right we're gonna save these three
for office hours so if you want to get
if you want to get
a little head start on office hours
there you go let's jump back into the
slides
please talk about how that's like
that's that's how you do
[Music]
a photo
we need a mod photo law if you're here
we need a mod photo
we we need like
like all of us in different poses
that would be that would that would be
amazing i'm gonna ask i'm gonna ask
y'all to take a photo we're gonna we're
gonna
we're gonna we're gonna photoshop it up
it's the best week ever folks
leon power rangers cosplay on stream
i'll do it
we gotta think of like a goal
yeah i think of like uh oh can we do uh
hold on
we can do this
one second
how do i set it up
um
when we take our next break i'll set it
up i'll sit up i'll set up a goal and if
we hit a certain number of channel
points i'll i'll come to class in my
power rangers costume
there we go for best week ever i'll see
if i can get one in time
is juggling going to be part of it hey
get what you pay for right
all right chat
what are objects
everything that is true objects are
everything
specifically they're a collection of
variables and functions right that's all
an object is an object is just a
collection of variables and functions if
you used the variable before and used
the function before you can understand
objects however when we are
tying our variables and our functions to
our objects
right
we call them slightly different terms
what do we call a variable attached to
an object
what do we call that
yeah
called a property exactly and what do we
call a function
attached to an object
a method nice so we've already seen this
like objects yes they're a little weird
there's a little bit more syntax we have
to learn some dot notation some curly
braces here and there but we should
already feel comfortable because we've
already already been using variables and
functions in the past so
let's keep pushing
i like to think of a physical object
when i first thinking about objects and
so the physical object that i like to
think of is a stopwatch
what are some properties
of this stopwatch don't give me the
value give me the properties that this
stopwatch could have
it could have a color property a brand a
shape a size
a thickness
yeah a minutes property
a seconds property so those are all
properties the values would be like
black or round or
accu-split but the properties themselves
are the actual attributes that make up
the stopwatch
water resistance equals true exactly
what would be some of the
methods tied to this object what are
some of the methods tied to this object
yeah start
stop
beep
reset these are all things that the
object can do functions right when we
have functions tied to an object we call
them methods nice
all right we talked about properties we
talked about methods and we've seen this
we've seen this last class but let's
take a peek at it again
when we are creating an object and we
just use the curly braces uh what type
of notation do we call that we have
we've created an
object tau using what type of notation
yeah literal notation and today we're
going to see the constructor way of
creating an object as well so here we've
literally created an object then we can
also create an object using a
constructor which we'll get to a little
bit later today now
once i've created my object i can use
what type of notation to add properties
and methods
what type of notation can i use to add
properties and methods
to my
object yeah dot notation so here
i have set stopwatch
current time equal to 12. so i've added
a property of current time to my
stopwatch and i've given it the value of
12.
here
i have set the telltime
method
using dot notation on my stopwatch so
i've given i've given my stopwatch
object a tell time method now how do i
know that tell time
right tell time is a method
how do i know it's a method
it's tied to a function exactly whenever
you see it tied to a function that's a
method because the the function is tied
to the object beautiful
and then down here
we have the object
stopwatch
and we are doing what with the telltime
method what are we doing down here with
the telltime method
what are we doing with the tell time
method there
we're calling it exactly we're telling
it to run
the only tricky bit here
is that we are passing in
stopwatch.currenttime
which at this moment is 12.
it's 12. so it's as though we had passed
in the number 12
into this telltime method it's an
argument exactly and so wherever we
pass 12 into time
wherever we see time it's as though i
had actually put in 12. so if this ran
we would see printed to the console the
current time is
12. now
when some people first see this and they
see this string down here
they're they they kind of get confused
but you don't have to be confused
because you've been doing this
over
and over
and over since the first day of
javascript
you have all done using this method
calling a method passing in a value into
a method you've used it pretty much
every single class that we have ever
done let's look at some of the code we
literally just wrote
look at this console log
it's the exact same thing hold on let's
take a look
we have an object
a method and we're passing in an
argument it's the exact same thing if we
look
log is a what if you if you only look at
log what do you know it is
it's a method and the methods tied to
what object
using dot notation
what is this method tied to
console console has to be an object look
console we're using dot notation log
so that means we've been using console
log this whole
time and the whole time we've been using
objects we've been calling methods and
we've been passing in
arguments the whole time folks it's
always been objects it's been objects
the whole time console's been an object
this whole time you've been using
methods this whole time
so when you look at this
don't get don't get tripped up don't get
confused you've been doing this since
class
one
you've been using methods
tied to objects
same thing with our console log it's a
it's a method
tied to the object of console
you got guy
so this is what i'm saying like if
you're like the the when i learned this
my mind was obliterated exactly my mind
was blown
i just i just like it just exploded on
me right
the whole time we've been using objects
we've been using methods and we're going
to see more and more of them we're going
to see them as we get further into today
and we learn about prototypes today
we're going to see this taken to another
level that's what i said when i promised
you your brain was going to maybe
explode a little bit you kept this from
me
i promise to make your brain explode a
little bit this is this is this is part
one of it
we're going to take a little bit further
once we learn prototypes to see how
objects are really doing all the work
for us
all right
what i would like for us to do is
we're at the top of the hour so let's
take a break
we come back from the break we're gonna
do our objects practice uh the lost
galaxy practice and then we're gonna
move on to constructors and some other
ways to create objects and then we're
gonna learn about prototypal inheritance
and all the power it brings to
javascript but before we do that we're
going to take our break if you're able
please get up move around hydrate
take care of your hands folks let your
eyes focus on something that's not the
screen
take your five minutes and when we come
back
we'll get into this objects practice
uh
sm0220211k thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
all right folks how about it
you're
all right folks come on back come on
back
simba camp maybe for the best week ever
we have cinema cam come back i don't
know maybe we got some things planned i
don't know
alrighty
all righty let's go ahead and keep
pushing here
when you'll be going over the portfolios
and projects probably not this up coming
with the week after
yeah
by the week after
alrighty
let's keep pushing
objects
so far we've made objects one at a time
right so we made objects one at a time
but what if we want it to
make a lot of objects
all right we're going to make a lot of
objects
what if we let's see let's see let's see
let's say we want to make a car right a
car is an object
what if we wanted to make a lot of cars
what would we need
what we need
yeah we need a factory
if we want to make a lot of cars we need
a factory
and that factory has to be put together
in a particular way that would help us
spit out a lot of cars
well when it comes to objects
we have a means
of creating a factory that spits out
objects
and so
if we ever wanted to be able to create a
bunch of objects
we would need to build one of these
factories
now the first type of factory we're
going to learn about is something called
a constructor
with es6 like the newer versions of
javascript we got some syntactical sugar
that sits on top of constructors that
bring classes to javascript
even though we have classes in
javascript
underneath the hood
is still constructors and something we
call prototypal inheritance and so today
we're going to see these constructors a
way that we can build something that
spits out a bunch of objects and then
later on we'll add some of the
syntactical sugar to help us create
classes
and so
we start to kind of think about why
might we need these things
we saw today that we could eventually
start combining our functions
to do different tasks we had a function
that could
randomly pick rock paper scissors we had
a function that could check if we won we
had a function that could play a game
what if we could package all of that
stuff
into one
object
we could then maybe spit out a bunch of
objects where we're just changing little
pieces at a time
so we could have a
factory
that would spit out games
and all we would need to do is change
some of the things we pass in we change
something we get a coin flip game if we
change something we get rock paper
scissors if we change something we get
rock paper lizard spock if we change
enough things we wind up with like
i don't know let's say checkers if we
change enough things we we get we get
chess
but if we're thinking about games
there's a lot of stuff that's similar
across all the games we're going to have
winners losers we're going to have the
ability for for a player to do something
for the bot to do something and so
that's what we're building up to
we started to see how we can combine all
these functions together eventually
we're going to want to be able to
have collections
of
properties and methods
that we can use and reuse and pass in
different bits and bobs to get what we
want so let's start pretty
let's let's let's not start there let's
start with this idea of maybe we want to
create cars
so we're going to need to create a car
factory
here's what my car factory looks like
don't let the syntax overwhelm you at
first
here is our car factory and what this
car factory is going to do
is enable us
to spit out
okay cars
enable us to spit out cars so this is a
constructor
it's just the what
if we're looking at it it's just the
what
it's just a function
it's just a
function
and they're gonna be some kind of like
quirks to it
we're to notice that the function
has a capital letter
that capital letter
does nothing
it doesn't do anything
right it doesn't actually do anything
it just helps us know
that this function is a constructor it's
going to be a function that spits out
spits out objects
right it's going to spit out objects
right
and so
somebody's saying why why not a class
because we're not there yet remember we
said classes are just in tactical sugar
on top of constructors and so we want to
know what a constructor is before we get
the classes
right so when we're looking at it it's
just a function there's nothing wild
here there's nothing
there's nothing there's nothing kind of
that makes this special we give it a
capital letter just that we know as
humans that this is a function that's
going to spit out objects for us
alrighty now
if we look
we're taking in a bunch of
values we have a bunch of parameters set
up
and then down here
we're going to call
our constructor function
we're going to call our constructor
function and we're going to notice that
there's one really unique keyword here
and that's the new keyword this is where
some of the power is coming from this is
what's going to help us to create these
objects
and so
we have
our first use of the constructor to
create an object
and we're gonna pass in
honda
civic
silver and four
so
anywhere we see honda
anywhere we see car make it's going to
be
honda
anywhere we see
car model
it's going to be civic
anywhere we see
car color
is going to be silver
and anywhere we see number of doors
it's going to be four
right and so what we wind up doing
is we wind up setting
all of the properties
that are going to be on the object
that comes out of this
constructor
so what we're going to see is that any
car
that comes out of this constructor
is going to have a make property
a model property
a color property
a doors property a honk method and a
lock method every single car that comes
out of this constructor is going to have
all of those properties and all of those
methods
and so we don't have to
we don't have to
rewrite this code every single time we
want to make an object when we did our
when we did our
when we did our creating of our object
right when we did our creating of the
object
we didn't have this constructor
right we had to do it all by hand
every single time so
what i want to do
is i want to create an object by hand
one more time before we jump to doing it
with a constructor so let's go back
and open up objects lost galaxy
and in our objects lost galaxy
i want you to create a mouse object
that has four properties
and three methods
but i don't want you to use a
constructor i want you to do it old
school by hand give create a mouse
object
give it a
four properties and three
methods
cool
this we're gonna put let's put three
minutes on the clock here three minutes
on the clock here
you got it dig deep
mouse object
four properties three methods
do it old school by hand
you can do the animal or
the the the actual physical object
that's up to you
we're gonna go back to the constructor
and cover this we haven't gotten there
yet
i can find the object in the animal
that's awesome
why is stopwatch not camo case
um because it's one word
yeah stopwatch is one word
got some dunzos coming in
all right
all right let's go come through let's do
this together
got a lot of dones proud of y'all well
done well done
let's do this together
i'm gonna go with a
computer mouse instead of a
animal mouse and i'm gonna use my mx
ergo as the mouse that i will be talking
about today all right this is this is
the the mouse that has saved my my
thumbs and my hands
uh so i'm gonna i'm gonna i'm gonna use
this mx ergo as my mouse all right so
i'm gonna go ahead and use literal
notation to create the object
let
mouse equal and i'm going to use my
curly braces so now i have my mouse
now i'm going to set some properties on
the mouse
uh what are some properties of this
mouse
we think this mouse what are some
properties of this mouse
brand yes let's do mouse dot brand we'll
set that equal to
logitech
um
[Music]
mouse dot color so it's going to color
equals black
let's go ahead and do
using model
so mouse dot model
set that to mx
ergo and we need one more
uh
wireless okay so let's do mouse
dot wireless
and we'll set that equal to what
a boolean of true nice doesn't always
have to be strings could be any any of
the any kind of like anything you
normally put in a variable you can put
in here so i got a brand of logitech
color black model of mx ergo and is it
wireless set to true beautiful all right
let's do some
methods what are some methods of my
mouse
yeah we got we got some clicks we got a
right click we got a left click all
right so let's go and do mouse dot
left click
equals uh we're gonna set it equal to a
function because it's a method
and we're gonna go ahead and say
uh you click the left mouse button
we're gonna console.log
left click
cool
let's go ahead and do mouse dot
right click
i'm gonna set that equal to a function
beautiful and we'll go into our
console.log
and we'll do
right click
cool
and then what's one other one scroll
okay let's do mouse dot scroll
and we'll set that equal to a function
and console log
jump
you know you know
so in in
counter-strike
we bind our scroll wheel to our jump
yeah
so that's how you jump fast in cs go
all right
so here i've built out a mouse
object i gave it a brand a color a model
wireless a left click the right click
and a scroll
however
wait a minute
hold up
i got this mouse
but i also
have this mouse
i want to create a new object that is
this mouse
what what do i have to do
what do i have to do
oh
oh all right well maybe maybe i can
maybe i can make a little bit faster on
myself by just like copying everything
and then i'm just going to come down
here
and we got to do it all over again i'm
going to paste it
at least what i'll do here is i'll use
some some some dev magic
and i'll say like mouse 2
right mouse two
it's still logitech it's still black
um but it's not mx ergo
it is the
pro wireless
all right it's the pro wireless it still
is left clicked it still is right click
and the function still does the same
um
oh
i got another mouse
what do i got to do
oh again
let's let's do some dev magic yeah yeah
yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah all right mouse three
this time it's
apple
silver
it's a magic track pad
two yellow it's magic trackpad two get
out of here i ain't got the the first
one it's the second one you know what
i'm saying
uh but it still has left click it still
has right click
but scroll is like
probably very different
um
slide
two
fingers
up
that's how you scroll right slide two
fingers
it's a little different i ain't jumping
with this trackpad
so
what we'll recall this code
this code is this code is very this code
is very wet
all right it's not dry at all
i'm having the copy and paste i have i
have
i have
50 lines of code
50 lines of code that should really i
should really have only had to set this
up once
and then pass my values in i should have
only had to set this up once
and then pass my values in and so that's
exactly
what a constructor does for us
and constructor enables us to set
something up once
and then pass the values in so i don't
have to sit here and set up a make a
model a color a doors a honk a lock for
every single object i want to create so
i could i could
sit here and copy and paste and add a
bunch of stuff and do it all by
hand
or
i could use a constructor that spits out
the objects for me and that's all it is
it's just it's just a function that's
going to spit out the objects for you so
there has to be an easier way
and that is constructors it's a template
exactly it's a blueprint to create this
car it is a template to create this car
and so down here i am using the template
to create a car
object
and what i'm doing here some of these
folks get kind of confused with this
what i'm actually doing is i'm just
setting the properties
on that object so any object that comes
out of this function is going to have a
make property a model property a color
property a doors property a honk
property just like i did over here with
brand color model wireless but instead
of having to type the name
of the actual object each time i just
replace it with this
right i just replaced it with this
and then whatever object is coming out
of my constructor has those values
that's all it means for now eventually
this will hold more weight for us but
all we're doing is just saying hey
whatever
whatever object comes out of this
function has this property and this
property and this property and this
property and this property and instead
of hard coding the name of the object we
just use this so that it gets added to
each of those objects so let's take a
look at this let's um
let's copy this constructor
and i'm going to open up my inspect tool
here i'm gonna go to console
and i'm gonna plop in my constructor
hit enter and now my constructor is in
memory so now i can take this line here
and i can create a car
boom
and then you know what i want to create
another car
and instead of having to copy and paste
all of this stuff like i did
for my mouse
all i have to do
is call that same constructor
with some new info
and so now
i write the constructor once
and then i can make as many cars as i
want
right
i can make as many cars
as i want without having to
constantly
constantly retype everything
and if we look if we look at it we can
ask for honda civic
we can ask for honda civic
and if we look at what it gives us back
it gives us an object
that has
a color of silver a door is a four the
hawk
the the lock the make the model it's all
there on the object that got spit out
when we made honda civic if we asked for
tesla roadster
we get all the stuff that got spit out
when we used it we have the color of red
the doors of two the honk the lock the
make the model it's all there
so if we were to actually kind of do it
line by line
we're going to create a new
object
using this make car constructor this is
the factory we are going to use
and we are going to pass in
honda
we're going to pass in
civic
silver
and we're going to pass in
4.
wherever i see car make it's now
honda
that means my
honda civic object is going to have a
make property of honda
just like
my mouse had a brand of logitech
then
that means that my
object is going to have a model property
that is
civic
it means that my object is going to have
a color property
that is
silver
and it means that my
object is going to have a doors property
of four
it also means that my
object is going to have a honk method of
bp and it's gonna have a lock
method of locked
this
number of doors and so the cool thing
is that this
is referring to the object
itself
it's referring to the object itself so
right now
the object that's coming out of this
factory
what is its doors property set to
the the car that's coming out of this
factory what's this door set to
it's set the four we passed in four so
this would
alert
locked
or
doors we can look the doors property has
been set to four that's what we passed
in
so we are going to alert four doors and
so this enables us to be able to spit
any type of cars out of this factory
without having to do more work so
basically parameters and arguments they
are parameters and arguments the the the
constructors aren't anything fancy
they're just they're just functions
and we do it again
here we're going to pass in tesla
we're going to pass in roadster
we're going to pass in red
and we're going to pass in two
wherever i see whenever as i'm creating
this object it's going to have a make
property of tesla
it's going to have a model property
of roadster
it's going to have a color property
of red
it's going to have a doris property of
two
it's going to have a honk method of beep
beep
and it's going to have a lock method of
i locked and it's going to look at
itself
two
doors
and so the beautiful thing here
is that we can continually use this
factory we can use this constructor
function that keeps spitting out more
and more cars
but we don't ever have to wind up
copying and pasting and doing it all by
hand we do the hard work
once
and then for each
object we create how many more lines of
code is it for each new car i want to
create each new object i want to create
how many lines of code is it
it's one that's dry as let's go
let's go let's go this is huge
we can now create as many we can create
as many objects as we want and we don't
have to use more lines of code we just
use one line of code come on
let's go
all right
now
if we look
in the inspector
and we go to our console
and we ask for the honda civic that we
made already
we can see something very specific
about honda civic
we can see
the factory it came from
we can see that honda civic is an object
that came from what constructor
what constructor did this honda civic
object come from make car exactly so we
can see the factory that this car came
out of
right so any object
can look at itself
and it can see
where it was made
right it can look at itself
and see its parent
it can see its parent you can see all
right i'm honda civic but i came from
the make car
factory
now let's say
we made
a bunch of teslas
right we made a bunch of teslas
but we forgot
we forgot we made a bunch of teslas
let's say we made millions of teslas
but we forgot
to give them
like to to make the radio work
right sorry let's say bluetooth
we forgot to turn on bluetooth
right
we made millions of teslas this didn't
happen this is just an example let's say
we made millions of teslas but we forgot
to turn on bluetooth
back in the day
what did we have to do with cars if the
cars all left the factory and they
didn't have something what did we have
to do with those cars
we had to recall all those cars all
those cars had to go back to the factory
or back to the repair shop we literally
had to recall all those cars to come
back and get bluetooth
the cool thing about tesla's though
the cool thing about tesla's is that
they can update through wi-fi right they
can update across the cellular
connection that each car has so
if we
made millions of teslas
that did not have bluetooth we could do
an over the air update and they would
all get bluetooth
let's keep that idea in mind here we
made a bunch of teslas
and the teslas when we made them
did not have
bluetooth so if we look at the tesla we
passed in tesla roadster red two
if we ask for the tesla over here
we can see that it has color doors honk
lock make model but it doesn't have
bluetooth if i was to ask for tesla
roadster
model
it would give me roadster
if i was to ask for tesla roadster
bluetooth
i get undefined it it does not have
so what tesla can do
is they can say
any car
that was made from the factory
now has bluetooth
they flick a switch
and any car that was made from the
factory now has bluetooth
so what tesla is going to do what are
tesla roadsters going to do
the tesla roadster is going to look at
itself
right it's going to look at itself
and it's going to say you know what i
don't have bluetooth
let me check with my factory
and it's going to check its factory
and if the factory has bluetooth then
guess what the tesla roadster now has
bluetooth and we can do this we can do
this i'm going to go ahead and do make
car
prototype bluetooth equals true
here we go make car prototype bluetooth
equals true
there we go
so now if i ask tesla roadster if i look
at tesla roadster
does tesla roadster have a bluetooth
property at all
look look don't don't guess don't don't
guess look does tesla roadster have a
bluetooth property at all on itself
on itself no there's no bluetooth there
the tesla roadster itself does not have
bluetooth however look what happens when
i do this
it has bluetooth what
we just saw
the the the roadster itself does not
have bluetooth
yet when i did tesla roadster.bluetooth
i got true
so what happened
is that the tesla
looked at itself
it looked at itself and it said hey
do you do i have bluetooth
and the tesla looked at itself and said
you know what i don't have bluetooth but
what i should go check
is my factory
and it checked the make car factory and
i said hey make car
do you have bluetooth and the factory is
like yup
and so since the factory had bluetooth
tesla got that over the air update and
now it has
bluetooth
so tesla didn't have it but it went up
to the factory to get it and now it has
it
this is how inheritance
works in javascript this is called
prototypal inheritance what we're going
to do is whenever we're trying to see
if a object has a property or method
is that it will check itself first
it will always check itself first it's
always going to check itself to see do i
have that property do i have that method
and if it doesn't
it's going to look at its factory or
wherever it was made hey factory do you
have that property or method and if it
has it it'll use it
all you think about this is like
let's say i don't have a car
i can go up my inheritance chain to see
if someone has a car
so if i don't have a car i can go to
moms and say hey moms do you have a car
and if my mom says no
i can go to grandma and say hey grandma
hey grandma do you have
a car
and since grandma has a car guess what
i got a car
grandma's got a car i got a car right
so if i looked at myself
i didn't but i went up my
my inheritance chain i went up to ma hey
ma do you have it no
grandma do you have it yes so since
grandma has it i can use it i got a car
same thing's happening with our objects
the object is checking itself
then it's checking its constructor
and then it can keep going up this
prototype chain
all the way
until we get to
the global
object
prototype
remember how i said every single thing
is an object well it really is
and everything inherits from this great
great great great grandparent
of an element
right this great great great grandparent
of an object we inherit things from and
so we see this over and over and over
again we've seen this so many times it's
quite interesting
we can do something like this
we could do something like this where we
could say let
num
equal
to
and then i could alert
num
dot to
string
what would happen here
if i if i ran this code ignore nor this
stuff up here
ignore that
i ran this code
what the heck would happen
yeah
we would wind up seeing alerted string
two
why would a number
have a string method
it doesn't make any sense why would a
number have the ability to make it a
string
what if numbers
didn't
actually have
the ability to turn itself into a string
what if this whole time
we have been going up the prototype
chain the inheritance chain to find
two string
on the global object prototype so
the number checks itself
the number didn't have two string
the number checks its factory hey
numbers do we have this two string if it
doesn't have it it keeps going up the
inheritance chain until it finds the
global object prototype let's google
this let's see if let's see if we can do
this
global
object
prototype
all right object
object prototype let's start here
all right if we look at
the object prototype this is this is the
this is this is the global object
prototype if we look we can see all
these methods
that are built into it
right that are built into it
and if we look
wouldn't you know
there's a two string
on it
so
even if
our number
did not have to string
even if it's factory
did not have its it to string it can go
all the way up to the global object
prototype and since on the global object
prototype is this ability to turn things
into a string the numbers have it
because every
single
thing
in javascript is an object and they all
inherit from the global
object
prototype so all this time
we've been using methods
and properties and some of the time the
thing we were using the properties and
methods on had no idea what the heck we
were talking about but it went up the
prototype chain until it got to the
global object prototype
and then it had access to it
we've gotten got we go get
but at this point
might have gotten got just a little bit
just a little bit
cool
so
if we were to look at this
we could even see this on the tesla
right
we could we can even see this on the
tesla
if i do this right here tesla roadster
doors how many doors are on the tesla
roadster if we go here
if we ask for tesla roadster
dot doors we get two back so two is a
number
does tesla roadster
have a two string method i can see a
honk and a lock
but i don't see a two string
yet if i was to do this
if i was to go ahead and do tesla
roadster doors
dot two string
we get that string two back
we just saw that tesla roadster does not
have a two string method
so it went and checked what
tesla roadster didn't have two strings
so where's the first place it looked
where's the first place it looked
it's factory right it went the mom went
to the factory
it went to mom and went to the factory
and it said hey factory do you know
anything about this like two string
and the factory's like i've never heard
of it and it's like oh i gotta go
ask grandma
yo grandma
you ever heard of this uh this
two-string thing and grandma's like of
course of course i've heard a tuesday
i've been using it for years and then
grandma shows us how to use two string
right shows how to do two string and we
can turn our number of doors into a
string number of doors
it's prototypal inheritance it's this
idea that even if we don't even if our
objects do not have
that method or property we can check the
constructor
and then we can check any of the
prototypes that we're coming from and
what we'll realize is that there are
actually a bunch of prototypes
there is an array prototype there's a
string prototype so if we look up
um
i'm just going to google it
array prototype
should probably throw mdn on that now
they got us look at that
right if we look at
array and we look at the array prototype
look at all this stuff that's on the
array prototype
all the stuff we've been using
filter
for each
includes map push pop reduce
they're all here these are how the
methods are tied to the arrays
and then if if
if this function
if sorry if this array prototype doesn't
have it
it can go up to
the object
prototype it's all chained together
folks it's all coming together it's all
coming together even the array has all
of these methods on it but if that it
doesn't exist on the array it goes up to
the object and we saw that the object
has all those other methods on it
let's look at number can we see
can we see number
um
let's see
let's do string prototype
see all these methods on string
prototype we we saw search earlier right
split
search
repeat replace so all these things are
just sitting
on the string prototype beautiful
so
and that's a lot to take in but
hopefully hopefully your mind got blown
just a little bit the first time
this like once i started seeing these
like gear start to turn
right it my mind kind of broke a little
bit
we've been bamboozled yeah so this idea
that everything is an object
a lot of the methods and the properties
that we've been doing
are just
things on this prototype chains that
we're like inheriting to use
and so as we start to learn more about
objects we'll play more with all the
stuff we learned tonight we'll we'll
we'll kind of see
we'll kind of see the
properties
and the methods and all the stuff that
we can use
and even if the object that we create
doesn't have it we can inherit it from
other places
cool
all right where are we out we got we're
close to the close to the ends here
well
getting close to the end here we do have
let's see
we do have
a
a let's code which is to
which is to make a street fighter object
right it's to make a street fighter
object and so if we look at this real
quick
let's see street fighter
we have a i'm gonna do this yeah we got
enough time we're gonna do this
i'm gonna put five minutes on the clock
i want you to
utilize the constructor we just learned
about the constructor we just learned
about you can you can literally
copy and paste right i want you to use
the constructor we've built to make a
street fighter constructor uh basically
i want you to build a video game
constructor if you've never played
street fighter i want you to build a
constructor that spits out a video game
character that could fight
okay let's go ahead and
set up a five minute timer we'll do four
minutes four minutes four minutes
four minutes to build me a constructor
or a strife street fighter
instructor there we go four minutes on
the clock how about you got this dig
deep we're gonna go over it together and
then we'll raid
[Music]
sorry
uh somebody said
for the
apple mouse would a different scroll
function be on the prototype and no i
think if we were building an actual
mouse constructor we would have a scroll
type and it would either be like wheel
or trackpad
uh mac the global object can change to
to impact all of javascript yep that can
happen
ctrl alt funk hey thank you for the gift
of subs thank you for being here
minutes folks you got this dig deep
got this folks
a minute left
prototype is just a fallback source of
properties and methods
it's all it is just a fallback source of
properties and methods if the object
doesn't have it
itself it checks its prototype often
from the constructor that it was made
from so if the object doesn't have
bluetooth it checks its prototype to see
if it has bluetooth and it can go up the
prototype chain until it finds what it's
looking for
why two different words in the
constructor this stop make equals car
make because
when i make this make equal make people
get confused and don't understand that
the right hand side is a parameter and
the left hand side is the property being
set on the object
so if i was doing this for the for like
my personal time i would do them the
same thing
but i like to make sure people can see
that one's a property and one is like
the actual method
iron we're gonna have to get a little
bit deeper into how javascript runs in
the browser to answer that question
all right folks come through let's do
this together
all right we got this we can do this
all right we're going to make a
constructor for a street fighter
character
so i'm gonna make a constructor here so
i'm gonna need a function
and i'm gonna say make
um i'm just gonna say sf character
right and then since i know this is
going to be a constructor what do i have
to change about this
because i know it's going to be
constructor what should i change
capital m exactly now does adding that
capital m do anything
nah
doesn't do anything it just lets it just
lets us and other developers know that
hey this is going to be a a constructor
function that's all it is just just so
that we know you're all in on a little
secret now come here
let me tell you
so when you when you
get in get in here a little closer
when you see a function
and it starts with a capital letter that
that's going to be a constructor
function now you're in on it you
understand cool we're good
a little a little secret between us
alrighty now
we want to be able to take in
some things that that four properties
and three methods so
what can a fighting game character do
i'm gonna say
um
punch
kick
block
and i do everyone do like a special move
like a special move
i like taunt let's do taunt
taunt and then special move
cool
beautiful
so we got we we got like four four
properties i think when it passed in
and then i'm gonna have
like four
i'm gonna have i'm gonna have three the
three methods yeah all right so let's go
and do the properties
this dot
punch
equals
equals punch now i was just talking
about this where
a lot of times you're gonna wind up
having
the property on the method
be the same name as the parameter
what you have to realize is that the
right hand side
the right hand side is actually the
parameter
and this is just the property that's
going on
the object so this dot punch means that
the object is going to have a punch
property
and i just need this to be the same as
this that i can grab the value coming in
so that's why you're going to see a lot
of the times that the property
and the
the parameter are the same
all right so let's do this dot kick
equals kick
this dot taunt
equals taunt
and
this dot special move equals
special move beautiful
so now
we have all the properties being set we
can pass in the punch to kick the taunt
the special move let's go ahead and
create some methods
so this dot what are some methods that
we should do
no i'm going to change this to something
else
and change this to jump
now
change it to
saying
i'm gonna i'm gonna i'm gonna call this
like saying
like or catchphrase
catchphrase
there we go catchphrase i'm gonna change
this to catchphrase
beautiful
equals catchphrase
all right
we have a a greeting we have
throw we have special sound
we got some other stuff coming through i
like it all right let's do our let's
let's let's let's create a ton the
reason i change it because i want it i
want it taught to be its own thing so
i'm going to do a function
and i'm going to say
uh
i'm gonna say
let's go ahead and do console log
um i'm actually going to do tech so i
can use the the keywords here i'm going
to say
you
can't
handle
my and then i'm going to use special
move so i'm going to go ahead and use my
my
my template literal here my my bling
syntax here i'm gonna do say this
dot special
move so my talk could be you can't
handle my special move
and then i'm gonna have like a this dot
winning
and i'm going to create a function
and i'm going to say a console log here
and i'm going to say
haha
and then i'm going to say my catchphrase
there we go so when i win i'm going to
say
and then my catchphrase
and then we need one other one
this dot
uh what should we use
what's one more give me one more
dash okay
dash
missed
me
missed me that's that's the dash
you missed me
all right
so now i have a constructor
whatever comes out of this constructor
should have a punch property a kick
property a catchphrase property a
special move a taunt a winning and a
dash
all right let's go ahead and let's go
ahead and try this
um let's do like uh like um
let's use like an actual character first
it's going to do like ryu
and we'll set ryo to new
make
sf character
we didn't like pass in like name or
anything
name probably would have been a good
property
but we're gonna do like
i'm gonna say like high punch
high kick
and catch phrase
does rio have a catch phrase
i don't know
we'll just we'll use scorpions
and get over here
we know that's not theirs but we'll just
say that that's reused for now uh and
then the last one is special move which
is
god
this is it to you right
token
uh token here we go cool
so now we have ryu
and ryu should be
a character that has a high punch a high
kick a catchphrase of get over here and
then a
special move of hadouken all right so
let's go ahead and
let's go ahead and run this so i'm going
to save it here
i'm going to open this in the browser
bring it on oh this is world watch here
smack this was a good bringing on
actually i'm gonna retract that it was
an okay bring it on
all right so if we ask for ryu
we can see that we get a
make uh street fighter character which
is good we actually it worked so our
constructor worked for charlie and so we
can see that it has a catch phrase a
dash method a kick of high a punch of
high a special move of hodogan it has a
taunt and a winning method so let's go
ahead and try using ryu
and let's try doing um
taunt
and i gotta use my parentheses because
it is a method
boom you can't handle my hadouken
because it pulled out that special move
from ryu that worked um let's go ahead
and try
not taunt but what was our other one
it was winning let's try winning
beautiful
aha get over here so now it's using the
get over here beautiful
and let's do the last one
which was
the
you can actually actually let's let's
just ask what was on there so let's see
ryu we can see that we had a taunt a
winning and a dash let's do the last one
which was the dash
ryu
dot
dash
beautiful whoop missed me
beautiful
all right so
we got a bunch of
properties and methods all being tied to
the constructor
something i would like for you to do
is try making some additional characters
on your own
we'll go over all of this during office
hours so office hours we're going to do
some more of the array methods that we
skipped we're going to redo building the
constructor and we're going to build a
couple more street fighters with the
constructor and then we're going to go
over prototypes again so we're going to
go over the prototypes we're going to
see how prototypal inheritance actually
builds and then once we can get through
this like once we get through this on on
on sunday
we're good we can start doing apis and a
lot of other fun stuff so
thank you for putting in the effort
putting in the work for being here or
making your brain
meld just a little bit i hope you
learned a lot
we have some homework that i want to
talk about right before we do the raid
and we have um
juggling biohazards they used all their
channel points to guide the raid so
let's let's make it let's make it count
for them
your homework you have some videos to
watch
and you have some intro to github to do
from microsoft please make sure you use
the link when you do the intro to github
it's really important that you have that
done by thursday so that we can spend
all day thursday doing git and github
and having a lot of fun so i'm really
excited for the best week ever we're
gonna kick it off on sunday i will see
you all on sunday for review uh let's do
our raid we're going to respawn press up
this was juggling biohazards they spent
all their channel points to make this
happen
let's go ahead and raid that channel
it looks like they're doing some some
unity game development
all right folks i'll see you over there
have a good rest of your night queuing
up the raid
hope you had fun hope you learned some
stuff
already folks
see you over there and hopefully see you
sunday peace
you